Now that we've got our uber logon screen up and running we're going to build the rider activity.
And this is going to look like this is mostly just a Google map.
That of course centers on the right location.
And of course as I update that location it updates the map accordingly.
But we've also got this cool and Oubre button which when we press it it changes to cancel Ubah.
And if we have a look on our past dashboard we now have an object called request which is a store of
all of the active Oubre requests and we've got the user name of the requester as well as their location
in a pass Geo point and you're going to need to use geo points to store the location.
One other small hint as well is that you'll need to have a state variable which can just be a Boullion
and will tell the app whether and uber request is active or not and show the appropriate label on the
button and then either create or cancel a request when the button is pressed.
So not an easy one by any means.
You might decide you'd rather follow along with the video here.
And that would be absolutely fine.
But either way good luck.
I'll give you a moment now to pause the video and give it a try.
Epic as well.
All right.
So here goes.
I'm going to start of course by creating new activity
from the gallery and we're going to want a Google Maps activity
I'll call it the activity.
And we'll need to do a fair bit of set up to to get this working.
You remember first off we copied that you are el
and then jump over to our browser and pasted in
here we go.
It's going to create a new project so I'm just going to click continue.
And then that's the name the API.
So let's get our API key to use in our app
and here we go.
So there's the key I'm going to copy that to the clipboard back over 200 hundred studio and then paste
that in
without a space at the end.
Great just going to remove those tabs just in case they cause any problems.
Area and then check ends with zero starts with an array.
Is that right.
Yes it is.
OK.
So we now get to go with our map.
Let's start in our main activity by creating our redirect and we want to do that in two places in the
uncreate method and also in the Get Started method when the button is pressed.
So let's set it up as a method of call it redirect activity.
So again more check to see if the current user is a rider or driver.
So if
Parsis a don't get current user don't get
rider or driver
I we'll see if that's equal to the rider.
And if it is all set up and intent
it's a
use the application context and jump to the right activity.
That we get.
So we'll do that here.
And also here
quake.
So that will be directed to the writer activity.
If the user is a writer now we need to set up our Google map to show the users location.
So it's been a while since we did this but we have done it several times so hopefully it will come flooding
back to you or create a Location Manager Location Manager and a location listener.
Call location listen up and then in the on map ready method.
We set up the manager and the listener.
So start with location manager.
And this is going to be
location manager using this dog get system service and then context dot location service.
And then we've got location Lisner which is a new location listener and the main bit that we're interested
in is on location and changed.
And what we want to do here is update the map with the users location.
So to do that we're going to need a lot them for the use of location which is going to be a new balloon
and we'll get that from the location up here.
So the location don't get latitude and location don't get
longitude and then we take out a map and we move the camera
using camera update factory.
And when we leave them to a new lot to learn that location being used location will also add a marker
to show them exactly where they are.
At Marka you corruption's and we're going to set the position to the user location and also set the
title to your location.
One thing we should remember today before we add that marker is clear and existing markets otherwise
we'll get markers all over the place as the user moves around.
All right.
So that's all done except for the permission side of things and possibly a semi-colon at the end of
there as well.
We no longer need the Sydney Marka
say we'll take our location manager and request location updates using the CPS provider and we'll get
the updates whether they move any kind of distance and any kind of time
and we'll apply location listener as the method to be run when we have a vacation update.
Now we only want to do that directly if they were on a version earlier than marshmallow.
So we'll check for build version STK integer to be less than 23.
So if that's the case
then we'll request that location directly if it's not we need to ask for permission more directly.
So we'll check to see if we already have this permission.
So we look for context compatibility check self-promotion and we're checking for this activity to see
if it has manifest permission the access fine location.
So we want to see if that is not equal to a package manager dot.
Permission granted if that's the case we don't have permission.
So we need to ask for it.
So activity compact don't request permissions for this activity and we're going to create an array of
strings with a single value which is manifest.
Got permission access file location and our request code will just be a one
and another.
Else this means we've got permission.
So firstly we again request the location updates by the location manager.
And remember this is when the app or the activity starts.
So we're going to want to get the users last known location if we can and we get that from location
manager or get the last known location by location manager or CPS provider and then we want to update
the map.
So I think what Aldin I'll create a method to do that so we're not using the same code again and again
I would just call it a map
update map and it will actually need a location which will call location.
And this one will get the location from up here.
And this time we'll check to see if there is a last known location
and if there is
and we'll update the map.
But that location.
All right.
So we then we just need to add a method for when the user has given us permission.
So that is on request permissions result.
And if we want to we can check that request carryed is one even though we're pretty certain it will
be.
And then we do our usual check to see if grond results length is greater than zero if we've got a result
and Granfer results.
0 3 is equal to a package manager it's permission granted.
Then we get to go.
So we're going to say location manager and request location updates by our location manager at our provider.
Zero meters and zero seconds.
And location listener.
And we also want to update map using the last known location
so I would just copy that line up there.
I don't think it's quite worth setting up a method just for that line.
But you're obviously welcome to say and then even though we've just checked that we have permission
we do need to do an explicit check
so context compact check.
So permission this activity
manifesto permission to access find location.
And we want to check.
But that's equal to this time
package manager it's permission granted
few.
There we go.
So with any luck I haven't forgotten anything that's worth having a quick check in the manifest to make
sure we're asking for access find location.
Yes we are.
That is normally added by default.
When you add a Google Maps activity but it's worth checking to be sure.
And I've got an interesting Arrowhead which is almost certainly one that you'll come across at this
point because without a combination of parts and Google Maps we've gone over the maximum number of methods
in an Android app which is 64000.
So as always a number of ways to fix this.
But the easiest is to add what's known as decks support which essentially allows you to have more than
64000 references in your app.
And we do that by editing our build Gretl file.
That's the one that says module pass starter project and in the default config section just add a line
that says
multi decs enabled.
True.
And then down in the dependencies at compile com dot Android DOS support and then Colan multi decks
Colan one point zero point zero or
and then rethink the project.
And that should add multi deck support to your app.
All right that's now sinked successfully.
So let's give it another try.
As a note there as well there's a new version of multi decks available say that's update
our cradle file to take that one.
And here we go.
So I'm going to leave it on.
Right click get started.
And that takes us to the New Right activity asking us to allow access to the devices location so we'll
click allow and there we go.
So we've got the users location.
I think that we need to zoom in a little bit.
It's a little bit too far down.
So let's update our update map method to use new that learn zun
and then we can use user location and I'll try a zoom level of 9.
See how that works.
While we're there as well we can test moving around the map remember by choosing the location and interestingly
it hasn't automatically redirected for me so I'll check that in a moment but let's have a quick look
at our map while we're focusing on that's OK.
I think that's maybe a little too zoomed out so let's increase that to 15 or so.
See how that looks.
And also let's see why it didn't save the user details.
Aha I think I know what it is.
I think it's because although we added the rider or driver right there we didn't say that to pass.
So let's do that.
We'll have saving back ground with a new save Colback and then we'll do the redirect activity when
the data has saved.
And also while we're here.
There was a small mistake up here
that instead of course when we're comparing two strings we should use dot equals
a better solution.
So let's try that out.
We should now with any luck be redirected to the map as soon as the app starts.
And there we go.
So now we're in it's now time to bring in our big request uber button.
So let's go back and do that.
In activity right now you may have noticed from before the activity right at the moment is just a fragment.
But that's not a problem.
We can just take out button and drag it in
relative to the bottom right of the screen and I'll change the button text
to call an Uber.
How much has the ID to call ubah button.
And then when it's clicked
it will run the call method.
OK.
So let's quickly set up they call either method public voyde call Ruba.
It's going to be called by a button or a view and initially it will just do a quick
call.
So let's just do a quick check to make sure that that's working.
And then a cool EBA is essentially going to be a saving of a new pass object which is going to be an
uber request by the way worth noting here with our rider or driver field just that
OK.
So let's go back over to Android studio and just check that that's working with our button you can see
how cool in at the bottom there.
So I'll just tap that and then we'll have a look in the locks.
With any luck we'll see our cool uber there we are at the bottom.
Super.
So to cool in Aruba.
We're going to create a panel object and that passenger is going to contain the username and also the
location of the user that requested it.
So let's write that code.
We're going to create a new Paris object
which I'll call a request and this is going to be a new parse object with a class of request and then
we're going to add first the user name.
So I put it username and this is going to be passed user to get current user to get username and then
we'll use the last known location to save the users location.
So we've got that here.
We'll need to do the check as well.
So we don't need to update the map we just need to get the location.
In fact
I'll put all of this code
inside that check and I'll also check for last known location
not being No.
Because if we don't have a location there's not much point creating a request.
And then if the location is no we just do a quick toast
thing could not find the location.
Please try again later.
Or something like that.
OK.
Now for locations pass has a built in data type called a geo point so it will use
a pass Geo point
and you can see here we create it with a latitude and longitude.
So we're going to get those from the last known location to get latitude and last known location.
Don't get let me G.
And then we'll take our request and put
location as they pass Geo point that we get.
So now let's say our request
with a new save Colback
and then as usual we'll check
if there was no error.
Then we also want to show the user that the has been requested.
So we'll take the baton the call button and we'll update it to give the user the option to cancel the.
So let's define it up here.
Call the boot button and then in on create we'll set it up.
This is going to be a button from fine view by ID card or ID dot called Hoopa button
there we get.
So now we'll change call button and we'll set the text to cancel Ubah.
So let's just check that that's a working once we verified that we're up and running with that.
We're going to need to have an app state that knows whether and Oubre request is active or not.
So it can display the right text on the button and it can either cancel or request an uber when the
user presses that button.
And here we go.
So let's tap cool and Ebba we can see that that switched over to cancel either.
So it looks like it's worked on the app side of things.
Let's refresh our past dashboard and just make sure that our request has been suitably created.
And there it is so that our location which matches what we had in the app and the user name as well.
Excellent.
So now all that remains for the right activity is to properly manage the cooling and canceling of a
bed.
So let's start off by creating a boolean which will manage whether or not there's a request active.
And initially it will be false.
And then the uncreate method will do a check to see if there is an active request in place.
So it will need a pass query on a pass object
and this is going to be a new parse query on a part object
of the class request.
And we'll call it query
and then we're going to look for where the username is equal to our current username
that we gave.
That's the only limit we need.
So then we find in the background with a new find Colback
and then if there's an error
and if we have some objects
then we're going to switch the request active to true
request active becomes true and we'll also change the button text
say the button was cool button
to cancel Ubah.
There we go.
And the last thing that we need to change is that when they call either button is pressed
which is this method here we need to check to see if Everquest is active and if it is then we're going
to want to cancel.
You bet.
And if it isn't then we'll go through that process.
Of creating a new.
Here we go.
And when the AIBA is created we also need to set request active to trigger
so to cancel a Nouba we need to find the request
which is exactly the same process as we had in the create method
so let's put that in then.
And this time if we find a request we're going to request active force and set the text to call and
Buba or just check that I do that with capitals.
I did
OK.
And then we're also going to need to delete the object from our past server.
So we'll loop through we need to create a parser object called object for all the objects returned.
That's possible there might be more than one where an expected one but this will delete all of them
just in case there is more than one.
And then we simply want to take an object and delete in the background.
And I'm not going to even have a callback for that.
You can obviously at one end if you'd like.
But now our app should display what we want which is when an Uber is active whenever a quest is active
then it will show the cancel button.
When we load the app.
And then when we press the button it will remove the request from our server and update the button and
the app state as well.
And here we go.
You can see we've got the council Lubos so expected that there is a request active and if we press the
cancel button
just once then you can see it goes back to call in Aruba.
And if we refresh our data browser request has indeed disappeared.
All right so our app is now behaving as we want it from a wider perspective.
It's now time to think about the driver.
And of course the driver then has to be able to view active requests and select them and navigate to
them.
And that's what we're going to find out how to be in the next video.